What are you most proud of your job?

Well, I think the most proud thing is that I am promoted to a senior software engineer in EMC in just two years after my graduation, while most people would take 4 to 6 years for this promotion. As my first job, this really means a lot to me.

First of all, this means the recognition from my colleagues and the tech leads, especially the ones from the EMC headquarter in Massachusetts because my promotion is recommended by them.

Secondly, this means my hard work and contribution pays back, and my talent really brings profit to the company, which inspires me to contribute more in turn.

Honestly speaking, I always remember the hard growth course of our team and my own career grow path. Three years ago, we were a startup team in China EMC with only 6 people. None of the team members had storage experience while our U.S. colleagues have an average of 12 years' working experience in storage, and we are confronting a project with millions of codes. You can image how hard it is if we want to earn the trust from the US counterparters and take ownership on some core features. The worst thing is that nobody can give us detail training because everybody in US is very busy under high pressure of scrum. Most of the time we can only rely on ourselves. Those days we spend a lot of time on code investigation and team discussion, I and another colleague stay at office until 12 o'clock in the night almost every day. The only way we can accelerate learning rate is to follow the code changes the U.S. colleague checked in. A few months later, thanks to the trust of our U.S. manager, we got some trivial projects to ramp up, and finally we got three big configuration path features, and I am the owner of one of them. During the working of the feature, I have a lot of full discussion with the U.S. colleagues and learned how to think in a big picture and a deep understanding how each line of codes could impace the performance and availability of the system. Actually, my codes always breaks some thing in the system at first. Then in the next few features, I had a full investigation with high level thinking and make deep understanding of which modules would be affected by my codes and how they interact with each other. Especially what is the effects from the performance and reliability perspective. Then in the discussion with our U.S. colleagues, I can have conflict with them and freely and thoughtfully prove why my design is better. Later through code investigation and writing simulation tests, I found several vital defects which could cause user data unavailable in the existing design of the U.S. colleagues and proposed the fix suggestion, which gradually earns their trust. After 1.5 years in the team, we become the absolute owner of MCR configuration path. And just at that time, I voluntarily start the career path of the MCR IO Path and become the first one who understands the raid alrogithms in our team and offers several training to the team to ramp up the whole team in IO path. After that, we gradually take work on enhancing raid algorithms and together with another colleague, I proposed one solution to lower the risk of user data loss in the raid algorithm, which has been accepted and would be implemented in our next product release. Then last year, we created China team and I voluntarily joined this new team. And now we also earned a good reputation from our U.S. managers. Concluding above,, I am really proud that I can be a member who contributes to the growth of a team.